feat: start updating spec for v0.8 (#150)
alchemyplatform/ERC-6900-Ref-Implementation: standard/ERCs/erc-6900.md

## Abstract

> This proposal standardizes smart contract accounts and account modules, which are smart contract interfaces that allow for composable logic within smart contract accounts. This proposal is compliant with [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md), and emphasizes secure permissioning of modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal standardizes smart contract accounts and account modules, which are smart contract interfaces that allow for composable logic within smart contract accounts. This proposal is compliant with [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md). This standard emphasizes secure permissioning of modules, and maximal interoperability between all spec compliant accounts and modules.
```

> This proposal standardizes smart contract accounts and account modules, which are smart contract interfaces that allow for composable logic within smart contract accounts. This proposal is compliant with [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md). This standard emphasizes secure permissioning of modules, and maximal interoperability between all spec compliant accounts and modules.

Reviewer 2: Nit: spec-compliant

A thought: I wonder if we should change the naming of IAccountLoupe to something else, now that we're getting rid of the reference to 2535.

Author: We should consider renaming it. Maybe `IAccountView`?

- An **account** (or **smart contract account, SCA**) is a smart contract that can be used to send transactions and hold digital assets. It implements the `IAccount` interface from ERC-4337.
- A **modular account** (or **modular smart contract account, MSCA**) is an account that supports modular functions. There are three types of modular functions:
  - **Validation functions** validate authorization on behalf of the account.
  - **Execution functions** execute custom logic allowed by the account.
  - **Hooks** execute custom logic and checks before and/or after an execution function or validation function.

> There are two types of hooks:

Reviewer 2: Do we also need to call out permission hooks here? Or is that what @howydev is working on? Could be confusing to mention "permissions" in line 48.

Author: I really think we should stop calling them "permission hooks". They're just validation-associated "execution hooks", and we already have well defined terminology for execution hooks.

Even in just the RI, there are many things that are logically "permissions" that aren't enforced via "permission hooks", such as the allowlist module.

>     - **Validation Hook** functions run before a validation function. These can enforce permissions on actions authorized by a validation function.

Reviewer 2: Nit: lowercase hook

>     - **Execution Hook** functions run can run before and/or after an execution function. The pre execution hook may optionally return data to be consumed by a post execution hook functions.

Reviewer 2: Nit: lowercase hook

Reviewer 2: Nit: consistency in hyphen usage in pre-execution and post-execution. See line 32.

Author: Shifting to no hyphen for "pre" and "post" modifiers, as that occurs in more places now than the hyphenated version.

- `IAccount.sol` from [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md).
- `IAccountExecute.sol` from [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md).

> - `IModularAccount.sol` to support installing and uninstalling modules.

Reviewer 2: This now also has `accountId`. We want this to be required and not optional, which is why that view function is not in IAccountLoupe.

- `IExecutionModule` to support execution functions and their installations on account.
- `IExecutionHookModule` to support pre & post execution hooks for execution functions.

#### `IModularAccount.sol`

Module execution and management interface. Modular Smart Contract Accounts **MUST** implement this interface to support installing and uninstalling modules, and open-ended execution.

```solidity

type ModuleEntity is bytes24;

type ValidationConfig is bytes26;

type HookConfig is bytes26;

struct Call {
    // The target address for the account to call.
    address target;
    // The value to send with the call.
    uint256 value;
    // The calldata for the call.
    bytes data;
}

> interface IModularAccount {

Reviewer 2: Add accountId

Reviewer 2: In case you add this before https://github.com/erc6900/reference-implementation/pull/162 lands, please pull the natspec off of that PR.

Author: Added

ERC-4337 compatible accounts must implement the `IAccount` interface, which consists of only one method that bundles validation with execution: `validateUserOp`. A primary design rationale for this proposal is to extend the possible functions for a smart contract account beyond this single method by unbundling these and other functions, while retaining the benefits of account abstraction.

This proposal includes several interfaces that build on ERC-4337. First, we standardize a set of modular functions that allow smart contract developers greater flexibility in bundling validation, execution, and hook logic. We also propose interfaces that provide methods for querying execution functions, validation functions, and hooks on a modular account. The rest of the interfaces describe a module's methods for exposing its modular functions and desired configuration, and the modular account's methods for installing and removing modules and allowing execution across modules and external addresses.

## Backwards Compatibility

TODO

## Reference Implementation

See `https://github.com/erc6900/reference-implementation`

## Security Considerations

> The modular smart contract accounts themselves are trusted components. Installed modules are trusted to varying degrees, as modules can interact with an arbitrarily large or small set of resources on an account. For example, a wide-reaching malicious module could add reverting hooks to native function selectors, bricking the account, or add execution functions that may drain the funds of the account. However, it is also possible to install a module with a very narrow domain, and depend on the correctness of the account behavior to enforce its limited access. Users should therefore be careful in what modules to add to their account.

Reviewer 3: Do you think it makes sense to mention that users have the purview to dictate permissions for installed modules at a granular level, separate from the module itself.

What I mean is, you could install a module with a standard set of hooks you use for *every* module (with varying configurations), so even a malicious module has to go through hooks it can't do anything about. This is a super strong security model-- especially if the wallet service itself appends these hooks separate from the applications users connect to.

Author: Yes, this is worth mentioning. Do you want to take a stab at writing up this consideration?

Reviewer 3: Yup, will do!

Author: Actually, could we do this on a stacked PR? To be able to close this & work off of `develop`?

> Users should perform careful due diligence before installing a module and should be mindful of the fact that modules are potentially dangerous. The module's manifest can give users an understanding of the domain of the module, i.e., the requested permissions to install certain validation functions and/or hooks on certain execution selectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should perform careful due diligence before installing a module and should be mindful of the fact that modules are potentially dangerous. The module's manifest can give users an understanding of the potential risks they are exposed to for that particular module. For instance, a request to install certain validation functions and/or hooks on certain execution selectors could potentially be a vector for DOS.
```
